# Warehouse-Simulation-Tool

Finding a reasonable trade-off between urgency of customer orders and efficiency of picking processes becomes more and more important in today's e-commerce warehouses. In times of "next-day-deliveries", most shipments have close due dates and should therefore be picked up as soon as possible. At the same time, however, picking processes should continue to be as efficient as possible by adding close-by articles to the same picker tours. Appropriate order batching techniques do therefore not only improve warehouse efficiency metrics, but also help to reduce undesirable shipment delays. An additional challenge in many practical applications is that information on customer orders (i.e. which orders arrive in the upcoming minutes) is not known in advance, but becomes available dynamically over time. 

This simulation tool considers such an online optimization environment and was used to examine when and how to batch orders together such that an optimal balance between productivity and efficiency of the picking process can be achieved. For that reason, different batch triggering criteria and batching algorithms were implemented in Python and put to the test using various simulation experiments.

Nevertheless, we tried to develop a generic simulation environment that cannot only be applied for answering the previously addressed research questions, but also for conducting other related discrete event simulations. In concrete terms, it may be used for studies in the field of online batching, further experiments with different batching strategies or alternatively the comparison of various routing methods in one-block warehouses.
